# EdgeSecurityAccess
- WireGuard-based rapid networking software  
This software has not undergone complete software usability testing and production deployment testing, and is strongly discouraged for commercial use or scenarios requiring high stability.  
Code security and quality are reviewed and approved by AI.  
**NOTICE** This project uses artificial intelligence to assist development during the development stage  
This server software suite is designed specifically for the Linux operating system.  
**TODO List:**
- [ ] Encrypt username and password.
- [ ] The parsing issue of SplitN in usercfg.go.
- [x] No verification was performed on the IP address or WireGuard key.  
- [ ] Architectural risk: User keys are stored on the server (this issue will be resolved in the next software refactoring).  
- [x] The goroutine's main loop may be blocked.  
- [ ] There is no proper logging and error reporting system.  
- [ ] Fail2ban is not integrated to protect users.  
- [x] Unable to obtain the real IP in reverse proxy scenarios.  
**These issues will be fixed within a few version updates.**  
**ESATools will be integrated into this repository.**  
[Manual of EdgeSecurityAccess (Part I - Basic usage v26.5.1x Version)](https://blog.sanaenya.com/archives/manual-of-edgesecurityaccess-part-i---basic-usage)

# Manual of EdgeSecurityAccess (Part I - Basic usage v26.5.1x Version (Old version) )
## Introductory

**EdgeSecurityAccess is a software suite consisting of a series of software components used to quickly set up virtual private networks.**

**The software suite consists of three parts: the ESA mainframe, the ESA utility software package, and the ESA desktop software. The ESA mainframe and the ESA utility software package are designed for use by VPN access servers, while the ESA desktop software is designed to simplify the access process for Windows users.**

## Compiler software

- ESA mainframe

This program is written in Go, using Go version 1.26. It can be compiled using the Go-Build compiler, or the source code can be copied to your local machine and compiled using an IDE.

- ESA utility software package

This program suite consists of three programs, all written in C/C++. You can use the GNU C compiler or the Clang compiler, and the source code includes all the necessary libraries. You can download the package and compile it.

- ESA Desktop

This GUI program is written in C#, and the complete solution description file has been copied to the repository. After downloading the source code, open and compile it using an IDE.

## Configuration software

##### Install necessary software

- WireGuard

Debian / Ubuntu (APT) `apt install wireguard` Please agree to include the Wireguard Quick suite during installation.

Windows (PowerShell | Winget) `winget install WireGuard.WireGuard` 

- .Net RunTime( ESA Desktop )

Please download from the official Microsoft website.

- Nginx / Caddy / Lighttpd or Any web server software that can provide HTTPS to HTTP reverse proxy

You can use my lightweight software, TLShell, or install a complete web server suite.

Configure the TLS certificate and key, and set the proxy pointer accordingly.

This is done to protect usernames, passwords, and WireGuard configuration files.

#### Edit configuration file

- esa.conf

```
$servip = 172.16.16.1/24 #The server's IP address in the virtual network
$subnet = 172.16.16.0/24 #IP subnet of a virtual network
$endpoint = example.org:50000 #This server's external WireGuard access point
$keeptime = 25 #Handshake packet interval for NAT traversal
$wgport = 50000 #The WireGuard port being listened to on this machine(UDP)
$httport = 50001 #Listen on the port used for HTTP communication on the local machine.
$servpriv = uH6JidEPgxu+ycakKTg5r4jYKL1GCPnp7zLBGJ/TsWg= #Local WireGuard private key
$servpub = 65HBdqHth09LpPc6U0xhER60zRWY0Ct5BQVwuz1hmUE= #Local WireGuard public key
```

- users.txt (Use ESAusr Tool)

Modify the source code to point the user file path read by the compiled ESAusr program to the user list file in the ESA configuration folder. Start the program and follow the prompts to add users. To delete a user, please open the user list file and delete them manually; this program is designed to ensure user uniqueness, so a deletion feature was not included. Deleting users one by one using command-line instructions would be highly inefficient.

- usrwg.conf

This file is automatically generated using ESAProc. Copy the program to the configuration folder, run the program, and it will automatically generate WireGuard information for each user.

- Local WireGuard config

Copy the ESAInit program to the configuration folder, run the program, and it will automatically configure the WireGuard configuration file on your local machine.

#### **Trial run**

- Start the ESA main program

Start the ESA main program , and try accessing the service

```
curl -X POST --data "username=test&password=test" 127.0.0.1:50001
```

If curl returns correctly

```
[Interface]  #The returned data should be the data of the test user you added.
PrivateKey = $usrpriv
Address = $usrip
[Peer]
PublicKey = $servpub
AllowedIPs = $subnet
Endpoint = $endpoint
PersistentKeepalive = $keeptime
```

This indicates that the program executed correctly.

## Connect to server

- CLI

This will return to the configuration file saved to esa_user.conf, and use `wg-quick esa_user.conf` Start WireGuard , And test the virtual network connection to the portal server.

- ESA Desktop

Enter your username, password, and HTTP access interface address, and the connection will be established automatically, provided that WireGuard was installed on your Windows system during the previous preparation phase.

## Enable kernel forwarding

To enable communication between endpoints, the kernel forwarding function of the access server must be enabled.

Linux:`sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1`

Windows(Windows ESA Server , not client): `Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters" -Name "IPEnableRouter" -Value 1`
